AI agents just dropped another banger of
a product and this one is even funnier
than previous attempts. If you are
following the tech news, you probably
know that the new trend now is to push
the AI agenda by having AI agents work
independently for weeks at a time in an
attempt to create a barely working
prototype. The results are questionable
at best. The experiment burns through
tens of thousands of dollars and the AI
companies declare the entire thing a
great success. All these just to justify
the trillions of dollars investors are
pouring into the idea that software
development is about to become fully
autonomous. A few weeks back, Cursor CEO
made a really big deal about cursor
agents independently building a browser
from scratch. Of course, that was just
another AI marketing stunt. What they
actually accomplished was to generate 3
million lines of slop code that
leveraged a bunch of open- source
software and still failed to do the most
basic browser tasks. And now it's
Anthropic's turn to push forward their
marketing stunt. In an article titled
building a C compiler with a team of
parallel clouds, they explain that agent
teams, which are basically multiple
cloud instances that work in parallel on
a shared codebase, are one of the ways
in which we'll be able to overcome the
obvious limitations the current LLM
models have reached. The project was
assigned to 16 agents which were tasked
with writing a Rasb compiler capable of
compiling the Linux kernel. And after
nearly 2,000 code sessions and $20,000
in API cost, the agent team produced a
100,000line compiler. Okay, granted
that's pretty impressive. Since metrics
like number of lines of code are all of
a sudden relevant again, it's worth
mentioning that the cost for generating
one line of code was around $5, which is
pretty funny when you realize that the
resulting compiler sometimes has
problems compiling the Hello World
program. But we don't have to take a
Redditor's word for it because the main
problems of the compiler are actually
clearly stated in the article. Props to
Anthropic for being transparent about
it. First of all, the result lacks the
16-bit compiler necessary to boot Linux
out of real mode, so it has to rely on
GCC for it. However, the AI was able to
build 32 and 64-bit compilers, most
likely because these are much better
documented and even replicated on the
web. We'll get back to this later.
Second of all, it does not have its own
assembler and linker. So, their demos
are produced with the GCC assembler and
linker. For those unfamiliar with
compilers, the assembler and the linker
are actually the parts that turn the
compiler from a demo into a usable tool.
The compiler translates source code into
intermediate assembly. The assembler
converts that assembly into machine
code. The linker then resolves symbols,
combines object files, and produces an
executable that can actually run on a
system. Without those pieces, you only
have a partial pipeline that still
depends on existing battle tested
software to finish the job. But it gets
worse because the compiler successfully
builds many projects, but not all. And
the generated code is not very
efficient. Even with all optimizations
enabled, it outputs less efficient code
than GCC with all optimizations
disabled. So, we got a company that
spent $20,000 to build an incomplete
compiler that's magnitudes worse than
the previous compiler and sometimes
fails to compile even simple projects.
And don't think that the $20,000 was the
limit here. Anthropic has pretty much
infinite resources at this point and
they would probably be willing to pay 10
times that amount if these AI agent
teams were capable of producing
something meaningfully competitive with
existing tools. But that's precisely
where the illusion breaks down because
the entire framing of the experiment
quietly shifts the definition of
success. The goal is no longer to
produce a better or even a working
compiler. The goal is to demonstrate
that something resembling a compiler can
emerge from autonomous iteration. One
particular paragraph stood out to me. I
tried hard to fix several of the above
limitations, but wasn't fully
successful. New features and bug fixes
frequently broke existing functionality.
This is the state-of-the-art model Dario
promises it will replace all developers
in 6 months. And this is not even the
sad part. These models are trained on
publicly available articles, books, and
GitHub repositories. And the topic of
creating a compiler is one of the most
thoroughly documented problems in
computer science. Compiler construction
has decades of textbooks, courses,
reference implementations, and
production grade open source code. Don't
get me wrong, it is not an easy task,
but it is a task thoroughly documented
and detailed every step of the way. And
that is exactly why this experiment is
more revealing than impressive. If a
system trained on enormous amounts of
publicly available knowledge, struggles
in a domain where the theory, the
architecture, and even the common
pitfalls are already written down in
detail, then all these stories about
artificial intelligence, reasoning, and
AGI are really starting to crack. So,
it's probably safe to say that no agent
is coming for our job in the near
future. If you like this video, you
should consider joining our community
where I'm posting more dedicated
content. Please don't forget to smash
all the buttons.